 
• Overall, 9+ years of experience in Object Oriented Programming, Analysis, Design, Documentation, Integration, Testing, and
Implementation of Client-Server, Distributed Multi-tiered and Large-Scale Enterprise applications using Java/J2EE
technologies.
• Demonstrated expertise in all phases of the Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), including Requirement Gathering,
Analysis, Designing, Development, and Testing.
• Extensive experience in various development methodologies including Agile, Scrum, Test Driven Development, and
Waterfall, ensuring adaptable and efficient project execution.
• Experience in Designing and building dynamic and user interactive websites using JavaScript, Angular 4/5/6/10/14/17, Node
JS, Express.js, Bootstrap, and jQuery.
• Expertise in Java programming and have a good understanding on OOPs, Collections, Exceptions Handling, Input/output
(I/O) System, Annotations, Enums, Concurrency, Multi-Threading, Lambdas, and Generics.
• Experience with Service Oriented Architecture (SOA), development and deployment of Web Services using SOAP, WSDL and
Restful Web services.
• Experience in developing applications using Core Java, J2EE, JSP, Servlets, Struts, Spring 3.2, Spring 4.0, Spring 5.0, Angular
Web Services (SOAP, REST), JAX-RS, JAX-WS, JMS, JDBC, XML, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Vert.x, ReactJS, XSLT, JSON, AJAX
and jQuery.
• Proficient in using Amazon Web Services (AWS). Extensive experience focusing on services like EC2, Amazon DynamoDB,
Lambda, CloudWatch, CloudFront, Cloud Formation, EBS, IAM, S3, RDS, Elastic Cache, SNS, SQS, AMI.
• Experienced in developing applications using Spring boot and with various modules in Spring frameworks like core, data,
web and AOP and Front-End integration using Angular and Neo4J for UI.
• Worked with Console applications, Windows applications, ASP.NET Web Forms, ASP.NET State Management, ASP.NET
Caching, Securing ASP.NET Web Applications.
• Experience in working with Spring MVC based applications using Rest based web services to handle JSON data formats.
• Expert in working with Frameworks in spring, ORM (Hibernate) and Spring Context, Spring IOC, Spring AOP, Spring JDBC,
IO, JTA, Spring DAO, Spring ORM, Spring Boot, Spring Batch, Spring Security, Spring Cloud and RESTful).
• Used Struts MVC framework and WebLogic Application Server for APIs and Developed server-side automation using the
Node.js scripting.
• Have in depth knowledge on the Java/J2EE Design Patterns. Implemented various design patterns like MVC, Command
Singleton, Data Access Object, Value Object Patterns.
• Extensively used the Java design patterns like Builder, MVC, Data Transfer Object (DTO) and Data Access Object (DAO),
Factory Method.
• Good experience in application development and deployment in Windows Azure Platforms using different Roles.
• Experience in working with different databases such as SQL and stored procedures in Relational Database management
systems like Oracle, RDBMS, DB2, SQL Server, MySQL and worked on NoSQL databases like Cassandra, MongoDB
(Connectors, Drivers), DynamoDB.
• Experience in Designing, Architecting, and implementing scalable cloud-based web applications using GCP.
• Have good experience in writing SQL queries, PL/SQL Procedures, Functions and Triggers and Cursors and strong experience
in writing complex queries, using Oracle, SQL Server, PostgreSQL, and MySQL.
• Involved in the development of real time streaming applications using PySpark, Apache Flink, Kafka, Hive on distributed
Hadoop Cluster.
• Experienced in developing Power BI reports and dashboards from multiple data sources using data blending.
• Strong knowledge on working with GraphQL schema, queries and mutations to interact with Mongo DB and several other
data layers.
• In-depth experience in using Kotlin with Android Studio and Eclipse with ADT plugin, designing UI layouts using Linear Layout,
Relative Layout, Frame Layout, Table Layout, List View, Grid View and using Android native widgets and custom Widgets.
• Perform maintenance and troubleshooting of our enterprise Redhat OpenShiftsystems and speeding up Existing Applications
with a Cache services using Redis Cache, Gemfire.
• Experience in database development and release management concepts, practices, and procedures along with performance
tuning database code in OLTP and OLAP environments.
• Developed Data Ingestion application to bring data from source system to HBase using Spark Streaming, Kafka.
• Experience in Message Queue (MQ) services like Apache Storm Kafka, Rabbit MQ, Active MQ, and IBM MQ.
• Used Junit and Mockito framework for unit testing of application and Log4j to capture the log that includes runtime
exceptions.
• Experience in using Testing frameworks in Test Driven Development (TDD) such as JUnit, Mockito, Cucumber, and Selenium.
Experienced in web servers like Tomcat 8, Web Sphere 8.x/9.x, JBoss 7.1.0, and Web Logic 12.0.
• Used AWS EC2 instance for deploying the applications and Kubernetes is for scaling and management of Docker Containers.
• Good knowledge and experience in using Kibana, CloudWatch, Splunk and Grafana for logging and monitoring.
• Built tools ANT 1.10, Maven 3.3.9, Gradle 3.4.1 and logging tool Apache and CI/CD tools JENKINS, HUDSON.
• Implemented Software Configuration Management using Version Control Software such as SVN and GIT and expertise in
Project Tracking tools like JIRA and Rally.
• Proven ability to quickly grasp new concepts and adapt to evolving situations, demonstrating a strong aptitude for continuous
learning and growth.
• Extensive experience in client interaction and resolving application environment issues, with a demonstrated ability to
effectively communicate with stakeholders, internal teams, and senior management at all levels.
TECHNICAL SKILLS:
Programming Languages Java/J2EE, SQL, PL/SQL, Python, Kotlin
Java APIs J2EE, Servlets, JSP, JSTL, Custom Tag Libraries, JAX-RPC, JDBC, JNDI, JMS, JAXB,
Spring, Spring AOP, Spring DAO, Spring REST, Log4j, Apache Kafka.
Frameworks Spring Boot, Spring MVC, Hibernate, Spring Data JPA, Spring Security, MEAN Stack,
Mainframe, .NET Framework 4.5/4.0, ASP.NET 4.5/4.0
Scripting Languages JavaScript, TypeScript, jQuery
Web Technologies HTML/HTML5, XML, CSS/CSS3, Bootstrap, JSP, Ajax, Express, Node JS, ReactJS,
Vert.x, Angular 4/5/6/10/14/17
Web/Application Servers Apache Tomcat, WebSphere, WebLogic, JBoss, Jenkins, Concourse, WODM 8.0/8.5
IDE’s Visual Studio Code, Eclipse, NetBeans, IntelliJ, Spring Tool Suite (STS)
Databases Oracle, MySQL, NoSQL, MongoDB, Cassandra
Operating Systems Windows, MacOS, Unix, Linux (Ubuntu, Red Hat)
Version Control SVN, GitHub
Methodologies Agile, Waterfall
Message Brokers Kafka, RabbitMQ, ActiveMQ
Testing & Bug Tracking
Tools
JUNIT4/5, Mockito, Jasmine, JIRA 7.0
Containerization Tools Docker, OpenShift, Kubernetes, Swagger
Others Software
Skills/tools used
MS Office, Adobe Photoshop, Power BI, Databricks, Spark, Kibana,
SonarQube, Nexus, Splunk, Grafan, Neo4j, Redis, GraphQL, Big Data
Build Tools Maven, Gradle, Ant,
CLOUD TECHNOLOGIES AWS, EC2, EBS, S3, ECS, AZURE, 3API GATEWAY, GCP
PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE
 
Role: Sr Java Developer
Responsibilities:
● Build Java/J2EE applications using Micro Service Architecture utilizing various Spring Boot, Spring Batch, and Spring IOC
frameworks and Handled security using Spring Security.
● Maintained Interface compatibility and concurrency in the project using Java8 features like default, static methods, data
structures, collections, algorithms, and Lambda Expressions.
● Proficiency in core Java concepts like OOPs, collections, Multithreading, Generics, Exception Handling, Data Structures,
Lambda Expressions, Functional Interfaces, concurrent utilities, Stream APIs, and serialization and handling XML.
● Strong working experience in building the components using Core Java, Servlets, JSP, Web Services, AJAX-WS(SOAP), JSON,
JAX RS- Restful Services, and JDBC.
● Developed RESTful APIs using Java, leveraging frameworks like Spring Boot to build scalable and efficient applications.
Designed and developed Java/J2EE applications using Spring Data JPA, Spring boot following the Microservices architecture.
● Utilized the Spring Boot framework for developing high-performing applications, incorporating Redis clustering for scalable
cache infrastructure.
● Using REST framework in Spring Boot and Spring Boot JPA for creating Microservices and developed UI, using Bootstrap to
build the Application.
● Designed and created MySQL database tables to normalize the existing tables. Created stored procedures to interact with
database.
● Designed and implemented scalable cloud-native applications using AWS services such as S3 for storage, ECS/EKS for
container orchestration, and DynamoDB for low-latency NoSQL data access, ensuring high availability and cost optimization.
● Developed event-driven architecturesleveraging AWS Lambda, Step Functions, and SQS/SNS, enabling serverless workflows
for efficient data processing and automation of business logic.
● Worked with Amazon Elastic Kubernetes Service (Amazon EKS) was used to orchestrate the Docker deployments and
Management of Docker container with a focus on high availability, fault-tolerant, load balancing, and auto-scaling systems.
● Implemented AWS solutions using S3, RDS, EBS, Elastic Load Balancer, Auto scaling groups, Cloud Watch, Optimized volumes,
and EC2 instances.
● Responsible for implementing monitoring solutions in Ansible, Terraform, Docker, and Jenkins. Used CI/CD framework with
GitLab utilizing Kubernetes and Docker for the runtime environment for the CI/CD systems to build and test and deploy.
● Used Junit and Mockito framework for unit testing of application and Log4j to capture the log that includes runtime
exceptions
● Experience in Designing, Architecting and implementing scalable cloud-based web applications using AWS and GCP.
● Created nightly builds with integration to code quality tools such as SonarQube.
● Developed and maintained Infrastructure as Code (IaC) solutions using Terraform, enabling automated provisioning, scaling,
and management of cloud resources across AWS environments.
● Implemented modular Terraform configurations with reusable modules, reducing code duplication and enhancing
maintainability for multi-environment deployments.
● Designed and enforced state management strategies using Terraform backend storage (S3 with DynamoDB lock) to prevent
concurrent modifications and ensure infrastructure consistency.
● Designed and implemented distributed data processing pipelines using Apache Spark, Kafka, and Airflow, enabling largescale batch and real-time data transformations.
● Developed reactive microservices using Vert.x, leveraging its event-driven architecture to handle high-throughput
applications with low latency.
● Implemented asynchronous, non-blocking APIs using Vert.x's Web Client and HTTP Server, enabling seamless integration
with external services and efficient data processing.
● Working on implementing new OCR solution; Spring Boot, OpenShift, microservices. Member of group developing
containerized applications; Docker, Spring Boot, Kubernetes, OpenShift.
● Designed and deployed scalable data lakes on AWS using S3, Glue Catalog, and Lake Formation, ensuring cost-effective and
secure storage of raw and processed data.
● Implemented Neo4j to integrate graph databases with relational database and to efficiently store, handle and query highly
connected elements in your data model especially for object oriented and relational developers.
● Used Spring IOC for dependency injection and developed controllers for handling HTTP requests and providing HTTP
response. Developed presentation layer using HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, jQuery, NodeJS and Angular 17.
● Handled all the client-side validations, slide show, hide and show controls, dropdown menus, and tab navigation using jQuery.
Responsible for creating efficient design and developing User Interaction screens using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery,
AJAX, NodeJS, Angular 17, and JSON Used jQuery, Ajax for service calls on pages to interact with the servers.
● Used Angular 17 as a framework to create a Single Page Application SPA that can bind data to specific views and synchronize
data with a server.
● Experience using ES6 features, along with expertise in popular front-end frameworks like Angular, or Vue.js to build
interactive and responsive user interfaces. Experienced with Angular services, templates, directives, services, and SPA build
dependency injections.
Environment: Core Java 11/17+, J2EE, Spring Data JPA, Spring Boot, Angular 17, Multi-Threading, Lambda, Streams, Hibernate, WCNP,
Restful Web Services, Kotlin, Agile Methodology, Vert.x, MS SQL, TOMCAT, CI/CD, Neo4j, Spark, Docker, GCP, OpenShift, Kafka,
Kubernetes, Sonar Qube, Maven, GitHub, JSON, JUNIT 4 and 5, Mockito, Nexus.
Client: Freedom Mortgage, Plano, TX Duration: July 2022 – July 2024
Role: Sr Java Developer
Responsibilities:
● Involved in SDLC requirement gathering, analysis, design, development, testing, and deployment of applications by using
Agile (SCRUM) methodology.
● Developed modules using Core Java APIs, Collections, Java 1.8 (Streams), Multi-threading, Exception Handling, Generics,
Enums, Java I/O and object-oriented designs patterns.
● Developed user interface SPA using Angular 14, Typescript, HTML5, CSS, material framework and multiple Angular 14
components which are compatible with typescript and Angular CLI.
● Experienced in working with Angular 14 modules, Route Guards, Flex Layout, Responsive Grid, Angular Material Components,
Reactive Forms to create a responsive single-page application (SPA).
● Developed various REST controllers for different HTTP methods to serve the data in JSON for the UI.
● Developed the back-end services using Spring Boot and Created Microservice business components in Java, Spring Boot,
Spring Security, Spring Batch, Spring Data JPA, and REST web services based on RESTful APIs.
● Configured XML files for Open-Source Spring Framework to fulfil the Proxy Pattern and for Spring Security injection to ensure
the back-end security by discriminating the role of users as well as access authority for the URIs and Server-side assets.
● RESTful implementation and integration with Neo4J and Spring Boot.
● Implemented Spring Batch jobs for data processing and integration, facilitating the repayment of balances to credit cards,
and ensuring efficient and consistent payment transactions.
● Created and injected Spring services, controllers, DAO’s to achieve dependency injection to class and used Hibernate
Transaction Management, Hibernate Batch Transactions and Hibernate Cache Concepts.
● Extensively worked on Spring Bean Wiring, Spring DAO, and Spring AOP modules and Implemented Spring AOP in exception
handling, which it reduces the development time to handle the exceptions.
● Used Apache Kafka for reliable and asynchronous exchange of information between business applications.
● Practical proficiency encompassing web performance optimization, familiarity with OWASP security principles, and adeptness
in creating ADA-compliant digital experiences.
● Involved in development of business logic which includes Code-behind files, User controls and Classes in the middle tier using
C .Net.
● Involved in developing application using PostgreSQL and wrote SQL and PL/SQL queries to test the data that was sent
through the external REST API calls.
● Scalable data design for MongoDB and Redis, Caching in MongoDB with Redis Cache Using Spring Boot.
● Proficiently set up Jenkins build Jobs for continuous integration (CI) and continuous delivery (CD) while skilfully developing
Python scripts to enhance automation capabilities.
● Deployed Spring Boot based Microservices Docker container using Amazon EC2 container services and using AWS admin
console and good understanding of Microservices architecture, worked closely with architect for product requirement and
management stack.
● Experience writing apps from scratch in Kotlin with Android studio.
● Implemented RESTful API integration using Retrofit and Kotlin coroutines, ensuring seamless data synchronization.
● Implemented Micro Services framework with Spring Boot, NODE.JS and OpenShift containerization platform (OCP).
● Planning, deploying, monitoring, and maintaining AWS infrastructure consisting of multiple EC2 nodes and VMWare VM's as
required in the environment.
● Effectively utilized AWS Lambda to seamlessly upload data into AWS S3 buckets and efficiently trigger additional Lambda
functions and Demonstrated expertise in creating and setting up computing and data resources on AWS through effective
utilization of EC2 instances.
● Designed and deployed RESTful APIs with Vert.x-Web, using Router and Handler mechanisms for efficient routing and request
processing.
● Managed concurrency effectively using Vert.x's worker verticles and event loop, ensuring thread-safe operations and
maximizing CPU utilization in high-load scenarios.
● Developed gateway service that authenticates the user, group with the JWT token and authorizing them to comply with
security standards using OAuth based authentication.
● Developed and optimized PySpark/Scala scripts to process and transform large datasets, ensuring high performance and
scalability.
● Administered and deployed applications into WebSphere Application Server, while also taking charge of developing
comprehensive Test Cases and conducting rigorous unit tests using JUnit alongside the Mockito Framework.
● Built automated data pipelines with Apache Airflow to streamline workflow scheduling and monitoring.
● Automated CI/CD pipelines in Databricks using tools like Azure DevOps and GitHub Actions to streamline deployment
processes.
● Proactively contributed to the enhancement of software quality by utilizing Jasmine and Karma to craft and conduct thorough
front-end unit tests, ensuring robust and bug-free applications.
● Designed Shell scripts to filter and transform the huge amount of data in troubleshooting the issues and used Log4j for logging
and tracing the messages.
● Used GIT for version control and actively contributed to the development of build scripts using Maven, streamlining the
project's workflow, and Checking code quality continuously with SonarQube.
● Used JIRA for effective defect management and proficiently tracked bugs and issues, ensuring efficient project tracking and
delivery.
Environment: Java 8.0, Spring 4, Hibernate 4.2, Spring batch, Spring Boot, JPA, Angular 14, Vert.x, PostgreSQL, HTML5, CSS4, Python,
AWS, Log4j, JIRA, Pure XML, JWT, OAuth, Web Services, WebSphere, Neo4j, Redis, Apache Kafka, OpenShift, ODM, Spark, Neo4j,
GraphQL, Microservices, Maven, Shell, Jasmine, Karma, Jenkins, SonarQube, REST UI, Agile Methodology (SCRUM).
Client: Honeywell, New York, NY Duration: Dec 2020 – June 2022
Role: Full Stack Java Developer
Responsibilities:
● Offered comprehensive SDLC application development services, including enterprise application design, build/configure,
integration, testing, and deployment.
● Responsible for creating efficient design and developing User Interaction end-to-end screens using HTML5, CSS, Bootstrap,
JavaScript, ReactJS, Node JS.
● Implemented React JS to handle cross-browser compatibility issues in Mozilla, IE 7, 8, 9, Safari, and FF, enhancing the user
experience across various platforms.
● Used React-Router to successfully transform the application into a Single Page Application (SPA), optimizing navigation and
delivering a seamless browsing experience to users.
● Worked in using React JS components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Animations and Flux concept and worked on Swagger
API and auto-generated documentation for all REST calls.
● Implemented MVC architecture React components as Views, models, controllers in node.js for API.
● Experience in building isomorphic applications using React.js and Redux on server side and Integrated React.js event
listeners, facilitating real-time operations and accurate notifications based on business rules.
● Designed and developed Microservice business components using Java, Spring Boot, Spring Security, Spring Batch, and
Spring Data JPA and implemented REST web services based on RESTful APIs.
● Using Java 8.0 developed APIs as per the business cases and analyses current API with Spring Boot.
● Used OAuth 2.0 in conjunction with the Spring security framework to securely expose our APIs by requiring the access token
when a client requests access to our resources.
● Converted the web sites to web applications to make Azure compatible and Created ARM templates, migrating on-premises
resources to Azure using Azure CLI, App Service Migration Assistant, and Resource Explorer.
● Experience in working with Graph QL queries and used Apollo Graph QL library.
● Writing SPARQL generators and queries in blazegraph on rdf triples to get inference results.
● Used Oracle 11g/12c for the backend data performed complex queries use joins for CRUD operations.
● Implemented persistence layer using Spring JDBC template to store the data in Oracle database and created JSON request
and validated the response using postman Interceptor and Swagger UI.
● Created Hibernate data abstraction to connect with the Oracle database, using Spring Integration.
● Performed ETL (Extract, Transform, Load) operations on terabytes of structured and unstructured data using Spark and
Hadoop ecosystems.
● Worked on .NET Security features such as Authentication Authorization, Forms-based Authentication, Authorizing Users,
Roles and User Account Impersonation, tracing.
● Effectively handled ASP.NET client / server-side state management features such as view state, hidden fields, cookies and
query strings, application state and session state.
● Involved in maintaining and updating the procedure for ETL process and experienced in developing Power BI reports and
dashboards from multiple data sources using data blending.
● Experience in database development and release management concepts, practices, and procedures along with performance
tuning database code in OLTP and OLAP environments.
● Created the .NET builds and made sure the builds are migrated all the way up to the Production Environment.
● Designed and developed a decision tree application using Neo4J graph database to model the nodes and relationships for
each decision.
● Performed testing using Junit, Mockito by following Test Driven Development and Demonstrated proficiency in Selenium
test automation by employing XPath and DOM techniques to interact with dynamic and static objects, ensuring robust and
reliable web application testing.
● Deployed and managed big data ecosystems on AWS, including S3, EMR, Glue, Athena, and Redshift, using CloudFormation
for Infrastructure as Code (IaC).
● =
● Integrated AWS Lambda functions into data workflows to handle event-driven triggers for real-time data processing.
● Worked on developing Restful endpoints to Cache application specific data in in-memory data clusters like Redis and exposed
them with Restful endpoints by using Redis Cache.
● Developed and maintained log monitoring software which filters logs with regular expressions, transforms matching lines,
and writes output files formatted to facilitate searching when they are forwarded to Splunk.
● Worked on UNIX environment for deployments and Unix Shell Scripting was used for scheduling batch jobs.
● Involved in SOAP & REST based web services testing using SOAP UI web services testing tool and performed functional testing
of SOAP and RESTFUL Web Services using SOAP UI Tool and Implemented message-orienting middleware with Apache Kafka
and JMS.
● Contributing to the creation of Maven scripts for the application's automating deployment, managing GitHub projects,
transitioning from SVN to GitHub with merge and versioning, and making use of Jenkins for continuous integration.
● Documentation of solution knowledge and process monitoring techniques for re-use by Support teams Strong analytical and
problem-solving abilities.
● Provided 24/7 on-call support for production, strong team player, good analytical skills.
Environment: Java 8.0, Hibernate 4.2, OAuth 2.0, Spring Boot, JPA, JMS, ReactJS, Kotlin, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, Oracle 11g/12c,
Swagger UI, Splunk, Web Services, Apache Kafka, Spark, Microservices, REST, SOAP UI, AWS, .NET framework, Unix, Redis, Selenium,
Junit, Mockito, Power BI, Azure, Graph QL, Docker, Maven, GitHub.
Client: Independence Blue Cross (IBX), Philadelphia, PA Duration: Mar 2019 – Nov 2020
Role: Java Full Stack Developer
Responsibilities:
● Offered comprehensive SDLC application development services, including enterprise application design, build/configure,
integration, testing, and deployment.
● Responsible for Developing Member Portal Application components using Java, UI Technologies such as HTML5, CSS3,
JavaScript, Typescript.
● Enhanced legacy applications by building new components in Angular 10 and Typescript.
● Implemented Angular 10 code to handle cross-browser compatibility issues in Mozella, Safari, and Chrome and created new
components, services, pipelines, and directives using Angular CLI extensively.
● Implemented various screens for the front end using Angular 10 and used various predefined components from Npm (Node
Package Manager).
● Created code for server-less monitoring platform built NodeJS, Material utilizing Amazon services.
● Addressed heavy traffic situation and migrating user-specific data off service instances and into a shared by using Microservices.
● Used Microservice with Spring Boot interacting through a combination of REST and Apache Kafka message brokers.
● Responsible for analysis, design, development, and integration of backend components using J2EE technologies such as
Spring 3 and Spring JDBC.
● Implemented Java EE components using Spring MVC, Spring IOC, Spring transactions and Spring security modules.
● Bottle Micro-framework implemented with RESTful service and Implemented JWT (JSON Web Tokens) for creating tokens
claims application and thus providing authentication of RESTful services.
● Designed and developed the RESTful web services using the JAX-RS API to communicate over the network.
● Used Hibernate, Object/relational mapping (ORM) solution, the technique of mapping data representation from MVC model
to relational data model with a SQL-based schema.
● Created and injected spring services, Spring controllers, and DAOs to achieve dependency injection and to wire objects of
business classes. Published message services utilizing a POJO and Spring AMQP's Rabbit Template by using Message Listener
Adapter.
● Authored and maintained AWS CloudFormation templates to automate the provisioning of cloud infrastructure, ensuring
compliance with architecture standards.
● Worked on google cloud platform (GCP) services like compute engine, cloud load balancing, cloud storage, cloud SQL, stack
driver monitoring and cloud deployment manager.
● Setup GCP Firewall rules to allow or deny traffic to and from the VM's instances based on specified configuration and used
GCP cloud CDN (content delivery network) to deliver content from GCP cache locations drastically improving user experience
and latency.
● Used Spark SQL for querying and analyzing large datasets, integrating with various storage systems like S3, HDFS, and Azure
Data Lake.
● Built PL/SQL procedures, complicated queries, and utilized MySQL database to load the application's data.
● Designed and created the RESTful services and used Swagger to communicate with the Micro services' API endpoints.
● Involved in fixing the existing defects and then working on the new enhancements for the upgrade releases.
● Developed back-end interfaces using PL/SQL packages, stored procedures, functions, procedures, anonymous PL/SQL
programs, Cursor management, and Exception Handling in PL/SQL programs.
● Experienced in utilizing Ionic and Cordova frameworks to develop mobile web applications and hybrid apps.
● Writing Unit test cases using the JUnit testing framework and performing unit and system testing.
● Expertise in SoapUI, Selenium Data Driven framework and integrating it with Maven [Build Management Tool], TestNG [Unit
Testing tool], and Jenkins [Continuous Integration Tool].
● Created Maven POMs to automate build process for the new projects and integrated them with third party tool like Nexus.
● Used Java/J2EE Design patterns like Business Delegate and Data Transfer Object (DTO) and Established infrastructure and
service monitoring using Grafana.
● Implemented unit tests for testing Angular 10 components with frameworks using Karma, Jasmine and Created JSON request
and validated the response using postman Interceptor and Swagger UI.
● Developed CI/CD pipeline using Concourse tool and pivotal cloud foundry (PCF) to deploy the application onto azure EC2
instance.
● Experience in Kibana in data visualization and monitoring Cluster and performance through X-pack.
● Developed, debugged, integrated, and deployed applications using Eclipse (IDE) and used GIT as a Version Control.
Environment: Java 1.8, JavaScript, Angular 10, Spring, Spring boot, Restful Webservices, GIT, Maven, Concourse, Nexus, MySQL, PCF,
AWS, Microservices, Jasmine, Karma, Restful, POSTMAN, Kibana, Ionic, Spark, Cordova, Swagger, SoapUI, GCP, Selenium, Jenkins,
DTO, Grafana, JUnit, JSON, HTML5, CSS3, Design Patterns, Eclipse.
Client: CyberCorpsoftware, Hyderabad Duration: Sep 2015 – Dec 2017
Role: Java Developer
Responsibilities:
● Followed Agile/Scrum methodology to iterate quickly on product changes, developing user stories and working through
backlog.
● Developed backend applications using Spring, Hibernate, Java, JSP, HTML, DHTML, CSS, JavaScript and AJAX and
Implementation of J2EEDesignPatterns like Singleton, Session Facade and Data Access Objects.
● Designed Java classes using Spring Framework to implement the Model View Control (MVC) architecture and involved in
developing the Helper classes for better data exchange between the MVC layers.
● Participated in multi-tiered J2EE design by using Hibernate and the Spring Inversion of Control (IOC) architecture.
● Developed the DAO layer for the existing applications using Spring, Hibernate and developed various business logic and reports
using HQL and Hibernate Criteria.
● Developed presentation layer using Spring MVC and used annotation-based mapping to map the JSP post backs to the
controller methods.
● Worked on a POC, building a java service to produce and consume Queue messages in ActiveMQ.
● Built an automation service for monitoring and reporting daily health checks that resulted in reduced manual effort and work
hours.
● Orchestrated the Business logic layer for MongoDB Services, facilitating seamless storage and retrieval of user data within the
application.
● Streamlined communication between MongoDB and Spring, establishing robust data mappings, and employing MongoDB
repository and Spring Mongo Template for efficient persistence.
● Used JIRA to keep track of bugs to reduce downtime, increase productivity, and Communication.
● Integrated and deployed applications on servers along with the Docker container service by Setup Jenkins CI/CD tool.
● Built REST API endpoints for various concepts and involved in migrating the Microservicesfrom PCF to Kubernetes environment
and Used Maven build tool to deploy the application on web servers, i.e., JBoss and Unit, functional, end-to-end testing is
achieved using the TestNg framework.
● Integration testing methods and Behavioural driven testing in the application are implemented using Selenium and Cucumber,
respectively.
● Installed application on AWS EC2 instances and configured the storage on S3 buckets.
● Used Jenkins to build and deploy the application and GitHub for code repository and version control and used JIRA to record
and monitor the stories and backlogs.
Environment: Agile scrum, JavaScript, Spring MVC, JSP, Hibernate, HQL, HTML, DHTML, RESTAPI, Eclipse, JBoss, ActiveMQ, Spring
IOC, Mongo DB, AWS, DAO, JIRA, Jenkins, Kubernetes, Selenium, TestNg, Cucumber.
Client: Zeta global India Pvt Ltd, Hyderabad Duration: June 2014 – Sep 2015
Role: Java Angular Developer
Responsibilities:
● Participated in requirement gathering and framework implementation sessions through Agile methodology.
● Developed application using Agile methodology, deployed application in WebLogic application server.
● Developed web pages with JSP and Servlets using HTML, JavaScript, AJAX, and XML and Designed Frontend with an object-oriented
JavaScript Framework like Angular JS.
● Used Angular JS as a framework for creating Single Page Application (SPA) which is used to bind data to specific views and
synchronize data.
● Efficiently migrated AngularJS applications to Angular JS, leveraging component-based architecture, two-way data binding, and
dependency injection for improved scalability and performance.
● Developed various screens using Angular JS and used various predefined components Npm.
● Involved in developing Web Services send XML requests reading response SOAP UI from Java 8 platform.
● Used Streams and Lambda expressions available as part of Java 8 to store and process the data.
● The application is designed using J2EE design patterns like Value Object Pattern, Session façade, Singleton, Factory, DAO,
and technologies based on MVC architecture.
● Experience in building web applications using Spring framework features like Spring ORM, Spring MVC, Spring DAO, Spring
AOP, Spring Context, Spring Security, Spring Core, Spring IOC, Spring Batch, and Web Services using Eclipse and integration
with Hibernate as well as Struts.
● Implemented (SOA) to retrieve data from the client side and made REST API calls and parsed the data to the client and
managed the security and Authorization using Spring Security.
● Created REST web services with Spring MVC pull client-related data from database, utilized SOAP UI.
● Worked on JPA as persistence layer, utilizing EJB annotations to synchronize the database through XML.
● Configured and deployed the application in JBoss Application Server.
● Used Cassandra for achieving denormalization through features like collections.
● Experienced with JIBX binding to convert Java objects to XML and vice-versa.
● Used the JERSEY framework to implement the JAX-RS (Java API for XML and RESTful Service).
● Involved in Code Review, Unit Testing and Integration Testing, and Selenium Web Driver.
● Reported bugs and tracked defects using JIRA.
Environment: HTML, JavaScript, Angular JS, XML, AJAX, SPA, Npm, Spring 3.x, Spring MVC, Spring Security, Hibernate, Factory, DAO,
REST API, JPA, JIBX, JAX-RS, Jersey, SoapUI, Selenium, Web services, JBoss, JIRA, Agile.
 
